git status
 clear
git add .
git status
clear
git status
git commit -m "added testing files"
clear
git status
rm testing.py
ls
clear
git status
git restore testing.py
clear
git status

git remote add origin ttps://github.com/Sirath07/github-for-devops.git 
git remote -v
git status
 
git remote set-url origin https://(Personal access tokens (classic))@github.com/Sirath07/github-for-devops.git
clear
git remote -v
git push origin master
clear
history
ls


this new changes is done through github not from terminal
git pull origin master

What is a Branch?
A branch is an independent copy of your codebase where you can make changes without affecting the main code.

(trainwithshubham)
git branch (to check the branches)
git branch dev (created a new branch named as dev)
git switch dev (it basically switches from master branch to dev)
git log (it shows the log of the git Q is used to exit the log)
git log --oneline (shows log in one line)
git checkout dev (works same as switch, switches from master branch to dev)

The Default Branch
When you create a repo, GitHub creates a default branch called main (older repos use master).
All your stable, working code lives here.

Key Branch Concepts
1. 🔀 Creating a Branch
bashgit branch feature-login       # creates a branch
git checkout feature-login     # switches to it

# OR in one command:
git checkout -b feature-login
2. 📋 Listing Branches
bashgit branch          # local branches
git branch -a       # all branches (including remote)
3. 🔁 Switching Between Branches
bashgit checkout main              # go back to main
git checkout feature-login     # go to feature branch
4. ⬆️ Pushing a Branch to GitHub
bashgit push origin feature-login
5. 🔗 Merging a Branch Back to Main
bashgit checkout main
git merge feature-login
6. 🗑️ Deleting a Branch (after merge)
bashgit branch -d feature-login         # delete locally
git push origin --delete feature-login  # delete on GitHub

Real-World Branch Strategy (Used in DevOps)
main          → Production-ready code
  └── dev     → Ongoing development
        ├── feature/login-page
        ├── feature/payment-gateway
        └── bugfix/header-issue
This is called GitFlow — a popular branching model in DevOps teams.

Quick Summary — Git Branch Commands

1. git branch name
Creates a new branch with the given name. It does not switch to it automatically.

2. git checkout name
Switches you to an already existing branch so you can start working on it.

3. git checkout -b name
Creates a new branch AND switches to it immediately — both steps in one command.

4. git push origin name
Uploads your local branch to GitHub so others can see it or so it gets saved remotely.

5. git merge name
Merges the specified branch into whichever branch you are currently on. Usually you switch to main first, then run this.

6. git branch -d name
Deletes the branch from your local machine after it has been merged and is no longer needed.



What is HEAD in Git?
Simple Definition
HEAD is a pointer that tells Git "where you are right now" in your repository.
Think of it like this:

🗺️ HEAD is like a "You Are Here" marker on a map. Wherever you are currently working — that is where HEAD is pointing.


What Does HEAD Point To?
HEAD always points to the latest commit on your current branch.
So if you are on the main branch and made 3 commits:
Commit 1 → Commit 2 → Commit 3  ← HEAD
HEAD is pointing at Commit 3 — the most recent one.


HEAD in Simple Words
HEAD = Your current location in Git
It always answers the question — "Which commit am I currently on?"


Hooks in GitHubWhat is a Hook?
A hook is a script that runs automatically when a specific Git event happens.Think of it like this:
🔔 A hook is like a trigger. When something happens in Git — like a commit or a push — the hook fires and runs a script automatically without you doing anything manually.
There are two types of hooks you need to know:Git Hooks — Run locally on your machine.

GitHub Webhooks — Run on the GitHub server and notify external services.

hello

